RHIDP-3836 Audit log: Audit log changes for RHDH 1.3 (#486)
redhat-developer/red-hat-developers-documentation-rhdh: modules/getting-started/con-audit-log-file-rotation-overview.adoc

// Module included in the following assembly:
// assembly-audit-log.adoc

[id="con-audit-log-file-rotation-overview_{context}"]
= About audit log file rotation

Logging to a rotating file in {product} is helpful for persistent storage for persistent audit logs.

== Default settings

Audit logging to a rotating file is disabled by default. When it is enabled, the default behavior changes to:

* Rotate logs at midnight (local system timezone).
* Log file format: `redhat-developer-hub-audit-%DATE%.log`.

> * Log files stored in `/var/log/redhat-developer-hub/audit`.

Reviewer: Log files are stored in `/var/log/redhat-developer-hub/audit`

// Module included in the following assembly:
// assembly-audit-log.adoc

> //

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
// 
```

[id="con-audit-log-file-rotation-overview_{context}"]

> = About audit log file rotation

Reviewer 3: I think this heading is user-friendly, and incorporating product names can also improve SEO. wdyt?
```suggestion
= Audit log file rotation in {product}
```

Logging to a rotating file in {product} is helpful for persistent storage of audit logs.

== Default settings

Audit logging to a rotating file is disabled by default. When it is enabled, the default behavior changes to:

* Rotate logs at midnight (local system timezone).
* Log file format: `redhat-developer-hub-audit-%DATE%.log`.
* Log files are stored in `/var/log/redhat-developer-hub/audit`.
* No automatic log file deletion.
* No gzip compression of archived logs.
* No file size limit.

Audit logs are written in the `/var/log/redhat-developer-hub/audit` directory.

== Log file names

> Audit log file names are in the following format: `redhat-developer-hub-audit-%DATE%.log` where `%DATE%` is the format specified in [`auditLog.rotateFile.dateFormat`](#configuring-the-file-rotation-frequency). You can customize file names when you configure file rotation.

Reviewer 3: The cross-reference in this sentence is not rendering properly, as the xref format appears to be incorrect.

> Audit log file names are in the following format: `redhat-developer-hub-audit-%DATE%.log` where `%DATE%` is the format specified in [`auditLog.rotateFile.dateFormat`](#configuring-the-file-rotation-frequency). You can customize file names when you configure file rotation.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Audit log file names are in the following format: 

`redhat-developer-hub-audit-%DATE%.log` 

where `%DATE%` is the format specified in xref:anchor_text[]. You can customize file names when you configure the file rotation.
```

== File rotation date and frequency

Supported `auditLog.rotateFile.frequency` options include:

* `daily`: Rotate daily at 00:00 local time
* `Xm`: Rotate every `X` minutes (where X is a number between 0 and 59)
* `Xh`: Rotate every `X` hours (where X is a number between 0 and 23)
* `test`: Rotate every 1 minute
* `custom`: Use `dateFormat` to set the rotation frequency (default if frequency is not specified)

> If `frequency` is set to `Xh`, `Xm` or `test`, the `dateFormat` setting must be configured in a format that includes the specified time component. Otherwise, the rotation will not work as expected.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If `frequency` is set to `Xh`, `Xm` or `test`, the `dateFormat` setting must be configured in a format that includes the specified time component. Otherwise, the rotation might not function as expected.
```

For example, use `dateFormat: 'YYYY-MM-DD-HH'` for hourly rotation, and `dateFormat: 'YYYY-MM-DD-HH-mm'` for minute rotation.

.Example minute rotation:
[source,yaml]
----
auditLog:
  rotateFile:
    # If you want to rotate the file every 17 minutes
    dateFormat: 'YYYY-MM-DD-HH-mm'
    frequency: '17m'
----

> The `dateFormat` setting configures both the %DATE% in logFileName and the file rotation frequency if `frequency` is set to `custom`. The default format is `YYYY-MM-DD`, meaning daily rotation. Supported values are based on [Moment.js formats](https://momentjs.com/docs/#/displaying/format/).

Reviewer 3: Link format is incorrect.
```suggestion
The `dateFormat` setting configures both the `%DATE%` in `logFileName` and the file rotation frequency if `frequency` is set to `custom`. The default format is `YYYY-MM-DD`, meaning daily rotation. Supported values are based on link:https://momentjs.com/docs/#/displaying/format/[Moment.js formats].
```

> If `frequency` is set to `custom`, then rotations will take place when the date string, represented in the specified `dateFormat`, changes.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If the `frequency` is set to `custom`, then rotations take place when the date string, which is represented in the specified `dateFormat`, changes.
```

> == Archiving and deleting

Reviewer 3: To be consistent with other headings.
```suggestion
== Archive and delete
```

// Module included in the following assembly:
// assembly-audit-log.adoc

[id="con-audit-log-file-rotation-overview_{context}"]
= About audit log file rotation

Logging to a rotating file in {product} is helpful for persistent storage for persistent audit logs.

> {product-short} supports audit logging.
> 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
```

I think I would just delete this to be honest.

> {product-short} supports audit logging for both the catalog and scaffolder. Audit logs can be identified by the `isAuditLog: true` field.

Reviewer 4: There are more plugins that are supported besides catalog and scaffolder.

Author: OK. 

https://github.com/janus-idp/backstage-showcase/blob/main/showcase-docs/audit-log.md#audit-logging-for-backstage-showcase says: 'Backstage Showcase supports audit logging for both the catalog and scaffolder. Audit logs can be identified by the isAuditLog: true field." 

Currently, https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_developer_hub/1.2/html/getting_started_with_red_hat_developer_hub/assembly-audit-log walks users through audit logs for OpenShift Container Platform, and only has catalog events https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_developer_hub/1.2/html/getting_started_with_red_hat_developer_hub/assembly-audit-log#ref-audit-log-catalog-events.adoc_assembly-audit-log, and scaffolder events https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_developer_hub/1.2/html/getting_started_with_red_hat_developer_hub/assembly-audit-log#ref-audit-log-scaffolder-events.adoc_assembly-audit-log

What else is supported, and where in Red Hat product docs are those plugins documented? I can update this accordingly with that information.

Author: Per Slack: update to say: {product-short} supports audit logging.

== Default settings

Audit logging to a rotating file is disabled by default. When it is enabled, the default behavior changes to:

* Rotate logs at midnight (local system timezone).
* Log file format: `redhat-developer-hub-audit-%DATE%.log`.
* Log files stored in `/var/log/redhat-developer-hub/audit`.
* No automatic log file deletion.
* No gzip compression of archived logs.
* No file size limit.

Audit logs are written in the `/var/log/redhat-developer-hub/audit` directory.

== Log file names

Audit log file names are in the following format: `redhat-developer-hub-audit-%DATE%.log` where `%DATE%` is the format specified in [`auditLog.rotateFile.dateFormat`](#configuring-the-file-rotation-frequency). You can customize file names when you configure file rotation.

== File rotation date and frequency

Supported `auditLog.rotateFile.frequency` options include:

* `daily`: Rotate daily at 00:00 local time

> * `Xm`: Rotate every X minutes (where X is a number between 0 and 59)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* `Xm`: Rotate every `X` minutes (where `X` is a number between 0 and 59)
```

> * `Xh`: Rotate every X hours (where X is a number between 0 and 23)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* `Xh`: Rotate every `X` hours (where `X` is a number between 0 and 23)
```
